Hello friends, welcome to Insurance Technical.
Here you get
only insurance information
from insurance professionals, that too
in very simple language. Today we are going to talk
about return-to-invoice cover under motor insurance policies,
which is an add-on cover. If it is a done cover,
you will have to pay an extra premium for it.
This cover is also called RTI in short.
This cover covers the gap between the car's invoice cost and the
insurance policy's IDV.
IDV means the value at which
your car is insured,
also called IDV. Return-to-invoice cover is mainly
for theft and total loss. When you
buy a new car, you
also pay registration charges and road tax along with the car's cost.
Usually, your insurance
policy covers the cost of your car,
whose value decreases every year. In
such a situation, if your car is totaled
or stolen, there will be a considerable difference between the insurance money
and the original cost of your car.
If you go to buy a new car, this gap will become even
larger.  And a lot of
financial burden will come upon you, but
after taking return to invoice cover, that burden will
not come upon you. Let us understand this with an example.
Suppose Mr. Rocky
bought a new car in 2024 for Rs. 15 lakhs. In which the
cost of the car is Rs. 12 lakhs, registration charges and road
tax Rs. 3 lakhs, totaling Rs. 15 lakhs. Mr. Rocky
's car gets stolen in June 2020-27. The
standard depreciation on this, the IDV of the car at that time will be Rs.
9 lakhs. Meaning the insurance value of the car at that time will be Rs.
9 lakhs.
Now let us see the conditions. If Mr. Rocky
has a standard comprehensive policy, then
Mr. Rocky will get the claim settlement by deducting the policy amount from Rs. 9 lakhs.
Now the condition is that Mr. Rocky had
spent Rs. 15 lakhs on the car, in return
he is getting only Rs. 9 lakhs. Now you
can see that there is a gap of Rs. 6 lakhs. Here RTI
means return to invoice coverage
comes into the picture. If Mr. Rocky's  If the policy comes
with return to invoice coverage,
they get the insurance claim by deducting the policy excess from Rs 15 lakh
and they do
not face any additional financial burden for buying a new car. This
means that the add-on cover protects you
from the additional financial burden of buying a new car or paying the insurance loan after total loss or theft.
It
also covers the gap between invoice and IDV and also
covers road tax and registration costs. I hope you found the
information useful and understood the return to
invoice (RTI) coverage.
For your information, let me tell you that
I have also made videos on other add-on covers of motor insurance policies
like zero depreciation, engine
protection, replacement, roadside
assistance, etc.
You should definitely watch them too. Please
encourage me by liking this video.
Most importantly, if you have
n't subscribed to this channel yet,
do so and join us
for insurance information from insurance professionals. Finally, thanks for
watching this video.